foreign
this is Bernadette Nixon I'm Michelle
Adams I go with the guest they already
introduced us yeah they did if you
wanted do you want to say something
about who we are sure absolutely so
algolia where uh API first search and
Discovery platform so whenever you're
online and you're shopping whether
you're in the search bar or you're
browsing around to get some inspiration
or maybe you're a biker or a hiker and
you're in all the old trails app all of
those are us embedded search within
other platforms
we have over 13 000 customers and doing
about 30 billion search requests a week
so it's a little bit of our scale and we
thought we'd talk a little bit about our
relationship because over the past two
years getting to know each other
you know we've heard a lot today about
go to market but go to market is also
intentional on the relationship of the
executive leadership team and especially
the cro and CEO so we thought we'd drill
down to a few points and start with the
first one ah
a cro is not the head of sales yes the
cro is not just the head of sales
certainly obviously there's Revenue in
the title and Michelle is under No
Illusion that she has a number to
deliver month in month out come Railway
What's the phrase rain hail or snow
but the cro role the O is important in
the title and the O is an officer an
officer of the company so therefore the
cro certainly is responsible for the
top-line growth of the company but as
with any executive position it is
important that every one of the execs on
the executive team have an allegiance to
team one
I don't know if you've heard about the
the notion of team one but it's it's the
executive team is the is the the Team
One within a company and so having
allegiance to that having alignment with
colleagues having your colleagues back
so that as you're bringing new products
to Market solving new use cases for your
customers so the alignment is not just
important for the cro with the CEO it's
incredibly important to get alignment
across the whole of the executive team
because if that doesn't exist then
there's no way that there can be
alignment and Harmony between the cro
and the CEO but the most important thing
is there is a difference between getting
a VP of sales and a cro the cro role is
much more expansive now it can have
different functions roll up to it sales
marketing business development there's a
whole host of different configurations
including also renewals that's not what
makes the cro role different than the VP
of sales it's the fact that this
Allegiance to Growing the overall
company and understanding that there's
got to be a marketing strategy that's in
lockstep with the product strategy that
then when it rubber hits the road and
the sales team is out on the field then
they're equipped we're not sending them
out naked into the field
so I don't know what you think about
that Michelle
so I've always been all things go to
market I love all things go to market
and over the evolution of this company
over the past two years it's bigger than
just going to Market it's everything
involved from Finance to legal to how
you build a plg motion into an SLG
motion it is how do you build a new
product introduction process with to
lockstep in with the product and so
Bernie is always reminding us every
Tuesday at our executive leadership team
the one team is in this room this is the
one team that every if we're not
lockstep we cannot we cannot drive where
the company needs to be and revenue is
the outcome the outcome of the success
of this team and so that is something
that has been an evolution of my
understanding of you know starting out
in sales growing through the ranks of
sales all things go to market and now
this role of helping to bring products
to Market and helping to build find the
financial models that make sense to mark
Market yeah because when there's
daylight between you and one of your
colleagues or me and you the team
throughout the organization can feel it
because what is a little gap on the one
team becomes bigger and bigger as it
ripples through the organization that's
why it's incredibly important and that
doesn't mean to say that everything is
always harmonious
I'm Irish you're Italian
sometimes voices get raised but it's in
a bid to get the best outcome so Harmony
doesn't have to be you know peace and
Tranquility it doesn't always look like
that I will say it's very difficult
working for a CEO that was once a zero
so there's a she likes to say it's a
blessing and a curse but uh somebody
that does not come from the product side
comes from the sales side she knows
everything that I'm saying and she can
call call BS very quickly when I'm
saying something because he's been doing
this a very long time so the next one
yeah next one
so obviously delivering the result is
incredibly important I know how much you
take that to heart personally in your
team
but the journey matters to you so talk a
little bit about the other things that
are important as you go along that
Journey
Chief Revenue officer it's all about
results and I started it out in my
journey here that it's trust the process
surrender the outcome that's a little
weird to say as cro but I truly believe
it which is if we build a process a
repeatable process and and believe in
the steps we're taking in
experimentation and creating the
environment the courage to be able to
experiment then the outcome will come
and that is a difficult lesson to learn
that we have to continue to continuously
iterate on the experimentation and to
create that safe environment to test a B
test uh examples would be I made a
decision a year ago on a workflow from
inbound top of funnel to to how it gets
to a SDR or bdr to an AE nine months
later the data that I had driving that
decision has failed me and it was AES
and bdrs raising their hands saying this
isn't working anymore we have an idea
let's test a different way and so making
data-driven decisions allowing the
experiments to happen and knowing that
there's going to be failure along the
way that's how we continue to learn and
we continue to iterate on this process
the outcome will happen that is the
culture I build uh you know based on
Courage based on Integrity because you
have to have the ability to have a
environment of transparency that you
speak up and say there's something wrong
here I think I have an idea I'm not sure
it's going to work I may fail may fall
flat on my face I'd like to try it and
always showing up with honor is
something I talk about often and it's a
culture that we're building in the go to
market side
I want to pick up on what you said about
integrity because
it's easy to have integrity in the good
times you need you want to have it in
the tough times
um and that doesn't mean to say that you
don't compete hard I'm a firm believer
that you P you compete hard you punch
hard when you're out there you're in the
ring and it's you or the other person
that's going to win that deal win that
match so I'm a firm believer in fighting
hard
but not fighting dirty there's a way
that you've got to be able to stand up
for the things that you believe in for
what your product will and won't do so
it's not a deal at all
um at all costs and in fact we had a
situation last year it's actually Q3 of
last year where we had a customer who
signed up we did a three-month proof of
concept with them proof of value with
them they had two main use cases and we
satisfied satisfied both in the proof of
concept got into production turned out
we only really truly satisfied one and
that was the secondary one it wasn't the
primary use case
um now they were not happy you know they
it had some pretty serious implications
within their own organization and we had
the choice we had the choice whether we
still you know forced them to pay bear
in mind we knew that they had a genuine
issue and we ended up taking a turn and
that churn was a significant amount of
um money but it was the right thing to
do so we did it so I learned a long time
ago four days on the job after a
promotion one year that um I didn't
hurry to the house of cards and
everything was a fraudulent deal going
back to the three years before so
anybody can post the numbers you need to
post the right numbers because it's the
longevity and especially in the SAS
business we all know that making sure
that you've got the right chain and
contraction profile as well as the right
um ARR growth is incredibly important
and there's got to be
um there's got to be Integrity right
along that customer Journey yeah and one
of our key values is trust and that
trust starts now it starts from within
within our teams trusting each other and
our customers building or earning the
right to have their trust so they can
grow we can grow with them uh I would
also say the journey matters for our
relationship many times we usually talk
to each other what five six o'clock at
night seven o'clock with about 10. we've
stopped with the one-on-ones instead we
talk with the cocktail it's said
somewhere between six and eight pm at
night and we catch up on the day and
through this relationship we built a
trust with each other that she can call
me out and I can call her out and it's
importantly it's important to have the
ability to build that trust so that you
can have the shorthand so when times do
get hard that you have that foundation
and can talk fast to each other and say
I don't think this is right and no we're
coming from a place that goodness that
we have each other's back that's crucial
I would say not only for our customers
but for teams that work with us and for
each other but but it's interesting
because there's other members on the
exec team and you know my one-on-ones
with them are sacrosanct they always
come with a list and that works for
their in my relationship that doesn't
really work for us so again it's there
isn't a one-size-fits-all on these
things you've got to figure out you know
your own what works for sort of the
matching pairs and back to the blessing
of course that you've done this job
before I had there was times where she
would step in and say that's not the way
to do it and as we all probably know
that's not the way the best way to learn
and through our journey she is because
I've earned her some of her trust uh you
know she has stepped back and let me
fail let me fall flat on my face
sometimes or solve the relationships I
need to solve within the Enterprise
leadership executive leadership team for
example uh the chief product officer and
I you know she would get between us and
okay you know we're gonna roll out this
product Michelle's saying this you're
saying this and and there came a point
where Bernadette would say you two need
to figure this out come to me when you
have the right answer the right approach
until then I'm not getting involved and
that I believe is also a tenant of
leadership is building that trust but
also
um you know a level of vulnerability has
to be present that she's showing how
vulnerable she can be and sometimes
entrusting me to figure out from my own
mistakes and to build the relationships
I need to be successful
they'll learn it was like I think we
were walking we was when we finally
started traveling again so it must have
been in the fall of last year and um we
both kind of said I'm tiptoeing around
you I'm tiptoeing around you it's
exhausted in London no no it was in
Paris it was in Paris that was right
yeah we've been walking to dinner it's
exhausting I just need to be able to say
what's on my mind are you okay with that
yes yes so that led to far more Frank
discussions but it led to a far better
relationship there's been a couple times
I've called you and said you hurt my
feelings today
I don't know if this works for every CEO
relationship but it's been working for
us
anyway journey journey matters
oh my favorite tops down and bottoms up
there's so many places you could go with
this so
I'll start with
um so it's getting to that sort of time
of year
where we're starting the planning
process for next year our fiscal starts
on Feb one
fall planning yeah exactly we're
starting the floor planning tomorrow and
Thursday actually and so that's one
example of tops down and bottoms up so
obviously I sit down with our CFO and
there's a a growth curve trajectory that
we want to
attain and exceed and then but we don't
just come up with that in a vacuum we do
come up with what our Glide path is and
what we want it to be but then we sit
down and we ask Michelle to go away
their Ops Team and to figure out okay
what's feasible Bottoms Up And so
there's an interesting interlock there
so it's it's it is a very data driven
organ conversation it is a very it's a
capacity planning conversation from a
sales perspective the certain
assumptions that go into that that you
know you kind of figure out your first
cycle through and then it becomes easier
as you go through it but there's a
there's a power to having a tops down
and a Bottoms Up and then the crucial
discussion on what needs to happen if
there is a gap if there's no Gap that's
a beautiful thing if there's a gap you
need to have a conversation about how
you're going to get to the Gap but
moreover and we'll come on to this I
think later but there's a whole value
drivers conversation about how you're
going to drive to that growth but I
think best example or one example of
this is just from a planning perspective
and making sure that you've got that
interlock but that also involves a lot
of trust because you know there's a
judgment call that goes into it's not
just the cells in a spreadsheet there's
a judgment call on what you can do in
terms of productivity gains and all of
that sort of stuff so when you just to
give a little bit more deep
oh
oh yeah over there I'm back so a little
detail on the tops down bottom
all right I'm back
I give up they don't want to hear it how
about the top sound sounds boring so
tops down is what's the size of your
world what is the opportunity what's the
what's targeted addressable Market
what's the service addressable Market
what do we think we can drive on
different use cases what are the
products being rolled out that we think
we can drive inside those use cases what
is the expansion versus the Net new all
that is a tops down how you look at the
are you there okay good and this has to
be aligned with everybody else in the
leadership team the bottoms up is do we
have the people to be able to achieve
what we believe we can bring to the
world how many people will it take how
have those people that we haven't seen
right now been building a yield corduroy
recorder over the past eight quarters
how many we're going to need to hire do
I have alignment across Enterprise the
executive leadership team with Finance
with legal with the CEO to be able to
drive that so that's the discussion and
between of the opportunity oh thank you
hi so between the opportunity of tops
down and the bottoms up do we have the
people that kind of discussion has to
happen that's what we're doing over the
next couple days there's also a tops
down bottoms up of you how we look at
the business plg and SLG so when you
think about I'm sure you've heard today
a lot about the product-led growth
strategy so organically who's coming in
for us it's developers it's the builders
the tops down is the sales approach how
do those Builders continue to build and
pawn itself identify the use cases to
get to a size to critical mass that it
makes sense to start to talk to a human
to be able to build and to support use
you know to support infrastructure so
that's also a top-down Bottoms Up
there's a third one do you remember what
it was I just remembered I was trying to
think whilst you were talking 52 hours
to get to Australia and back last week
it was kind of crazy but I'm there
um it was the fact that you know you
have your sales team and your your
marketing team you go to market team but
it goes back to that team one aspect so
the the top team or the Team One
whatever you choose to call it we call
it elt for sure exact leadership team
um there's a there's a notion of loyalty
to that team and then to each of the
functional teams and I know when I was
coming up through the ranks and the
first time I had this notion shared with
me I found it really alien I found it
alien because I remember and I still
have in my office at home a pair of gold
boxing gloves that I was given a number
of years ago for fighting the fights for
my team when I was in a bigger company
so the fact now I had to align with my
peers and not with you know my team that
was out in the battlefield felt really
really
just alien strange didn't feel like I
was in my right body and so that is
something as you as you look at
um hiring for an exec team something
that you have to get I mean slootman
mentioned it in his book I think what
last year when it came out and you know
I think he asked a cro the question when
he was interviewing people that was it
yeah it's part of his interviewing
process for a cro who's your team I
think was the question that he asked
um and if he got the wrong answer that
was it out so didn't get to that stage
but it sounds
um a little bit alien but it is so
important and it's important for each
one of the functional teams because the
more aligned that each of the execs are
on the team
frankly the easier it makes my job
but the better it is for the business
good and the better is ultimately for
the customer because they can't see the
little infighting that you know
sometimes erupts when you get one of
these fissures that's a good one
hey Drive alignment and accountability
with value drivers this is a new muscle
we're building and this is a muscle
built across all of the leadership team
but mostly between my counterpart on the
product side and myself and this is do
you wanna do you want to talk about what
why why we learned this lesson yes so
I'll okay hand it back to you in a
minute so we made an announcement
yesterday that we acquired a company
called search.io so we have been the
leading API first keyword search
platform on the market and search i o
cool startup about 30 people mostly out
of Australia and they are and they have
a semantic search but based on a vector
search engine which means it leaps frogs
the rest of what's going on in the
semantic search Marketplace and it's a
perfect partner so the complementary
nature of our products was really really
good and we're gonna put them into one
API for all of the developers out there
to leverage but we came across this or
I'd used it in a previous life we
started to drive alignment by this
notion of well how are we going to hit a
number to make the return on this
fantastic acquisition that we've made
and what's going to be the driver for
that ARR as a result of the combination
of these two companies and frankly
because I didn't want to have Michelle
in my ear going I need product and Barat
and my other care saying I need them to
sell what's on the truck right now I
instituted this process of value drivers
so it could become a Common Language
across the exec team so do you want to
pick it up from there yes so basically
Bernadette locked us in a room
said we're not coming out until we can
agree on value drivers and come up with
a dollar amount over the next three
years that we will drive to be able to
come up with the ROI to bring it forth
to the board to get approval to purchase
this company and Broad has his way of
looking at the world Chief product
officer and I have my way of looking at
the world and we started with a
spreadsheet and he said okay
we buy this company it's going to take
me a couple quarters to build out this
product but before I do do you think
that there is any lift in win rates by
having this company on board
yeah
how much
one percent come on
two three let's let's think through what
you're gonna do on win rates all right
all right
two and a half percent and and we
started for that conversation and then
we moved on to okay first product the
first use case so we roll out and we did
the same exercise and I now went back to
him and said can you deliver it by first
month of q1
second month of q1 and it was this
discussion that built out four or five
tabs on a spreadsheet of okay so we have
six use cases we've identified 10
products we've identified win rate we've
identified what happens to the install
base if we were able to address these
markets inside of our install base and
we came up with a number that both of us
looked at each other it was midnight and
we we we we brought Bernadette into the
room which was a virtual room and
brought her in so we got the number and
she just looked at us and said you two
agree on this and you're going to stand
by this number this is the number you
two will deliver and we've looked at
each other again like yeah this was this
is the exercise you need to do so what
does this mean now now that we've bought
the company
Brad has a whole bunch of stuff to do to
build out the bid out build out all of
those use cases all the products the
install base I have my work due today on
day one how we're going to go to market
what is the marketing plan what is the
thought leadership what are we going to
do on uh you know enablement assets but
we both have our marching orders because
she's going to check every Tuesday on at
our elt meeting and say where are we
agreement still any any discussion now
once again trust the process surrender
the outcome there's going to be stuff
that comes up that we we have not even
recognized yet that's just how life is
but if we're following a process and we
have accountability and Alignment every
single week and we're transparent and
over communicating I think this is a
really great process you can take away
and use in your own business anything on
that and there might be other processes
that you use but I guess the takeaway
from us on this is figure out for us
what's been really helpful is it's
provided this single language
across across the exec team where are we
on value driver one you know it's just
it's a shorthand that just helps us
which you know being remote that also
helps as well and it keeps us on track
because otherwise we can go in a million
different directions we're not going to
do that we'll focus on the value drivers
if it falls outside of that it falls
outside of that so it just helps with
the focus and it's a great way to for go
no go because we're about to go into
fall planning we're talking about
products and there's going to be
ruthless prioritization and the way you
do that is with a value driver exercise
that you have
you have everyone in the room agreeing
that this one takes priority than the
other one because it drives more in
eight quarters and tying into what is
going to drive the most value for our
customers right and I would also say for
any of you the companies out there that
are looking at potentially
um acquiring other companies I think
over the next 18 months there'll be a
lot of activity but so many companies
whether you're buying a company that's
pre-revenue or post Revenue
people have great ideas Grand ideas
about what it will mean for the business
but if you don't nail it down into
something a concrete deliverable through
whatever framework you use
how are you going to know you're on
track you know we did the same thing
with the more full acquisition last year
we didn't have this process so it was a
little more
um a little less elegant and we did have
the Michelle in one ear in Barat in the
other era at different junctures which
is why you know we're trying to learn
from our mistakes in the past too and
because of this alignment I think we can
go back and retrofit value drivers to
products we rolled out last year yeah
this is this is a big aha moment for us
okay
key takeaways
so this first one's yours or is it you
think you think you did better with me
with data I think I you know I I
personally believe that data-driven
conversations builds trust it's very
easy to go to anecdotes which aren't
necessarily helpful if you can root it's
okay to support the data with anecdotes
or a qualitative but if it's not rooted
in the data of what the data is showing
and it's also okay when the data fails
you
I'll tell you Q2 the data failed me the
algorithms we've built over the past 10
quarters from a tops down and bottoms up
it started to fail and that's okay but I
gotta be able to say to Bernadette
something broke in my data something
that was working is not working anymore
I need to go back and establish a new
normal a new pattern and having the
vulnerability which I'm kind of jumping
to the third one here but vulnerability
is essential it's getting comfortable
with I don't know I read that in Ray
Dalia as one of his principles if you
can do I don't know well that's really
hard so data being able to support and
data-driven decisions but sometimes the
data will fail you and how you can get
comfortable with something just broke I
need to take three steps back to figure
out what just happened and be and my
first call is to Bernadette something's
broke I don't know give me a minute I'll
come back and usually she gives me the
space usually well and I love it because
you know
um
if there is bad news it's not like a
fine wine it doesn't age well let's know
it now let's know whether we think we
know the root cause of it well let's go
away and find that root cause but I
think that's really a combination of all
of these it requires trust it requires
vulnerability it requires communication
you know before you've got you know
everything neatly packaged up you know
people are different I don't need
everything neatly packaged up that that
seems too contrived to me and like
there's too much wasted energy going
into busy work quite frankly so I like
the ad hoc communication
um and I love the fact that you do trust
me enough to come to me with the great
news and the not so great news
yeah and there's moments where I just
need a cheerleader I need her to when I
call her to to build me back up it's
been a really tough day here's what
happened that's really hard if you don't
have the level of vulnerability and the
communication transparency we've and
you've done that a couple times too
saying bad day it's it's important
sometimes it's not about the data it's
about the emotions and talking through
it so that we can have a level of
equanimity for our teams
I would always say just you know
communicate communicate communicate and
figure out what works for you with your
professional chemistry and don't always
think they know Harmony within the we
hate the word harmony we hated the word
and we're like what's our Twist on
Harmony and it's that it doesn't have to
be all sweetness and light you know
sometimes it's an extremely direct
conversation between us uh occasionally
we you know I stopped one last two
weekends ago I stopped one and said I'm
okay with this conversation are you okay
with it yeah yeah fine let's get back to
it I'm like okay
so don't be frightened of having that
um element in in the the dynamic in the
team because provided there's always
um
what's the right word positive intention
or assumed innocence then I think it
works hanlon's razor that's what's
called okay thank you same positive
intention
[Music]